[Applause]
so this is the first and the last slide
each of my 6400 students over the last
15 years has seen I do not believe you
can build a multi-billion dollar
organization unless you are clear on
which instinct or organ you are
targeting our species has a need for a
superb in our competitive advantage as a
species is our brain our brain is robust
enough to ask these really difficult
questions but unfortunately doesn't have
the processing power to answer them
which creates a need for a super being
that we can pray to and look to for
answers what is prayer sending a query
into the universe and hopefully there's
some sort of divine intervention we
don't need to understand what's going on
from an all-knowing all-seeing super
being that gives us authority that this
is the right answer
will my kid be all right you have your
planet of stuff you have your planet of
work you have your planet of friends if
you have kids you know that once
something comes off the rails with your
kids everything melts and your universe
to the Sun that is your kids will my kid
be all right symptoms and treatment of
croup in the Google query box one in six
queries presented to Google have never
been asked before in the history of
mankind what priests teacher rabbi
scholar mentor boss has so much
credibility that one in six questions
posed to that person have never been
asked before Google is our modern man's
to God imagine your face in your name
above everything you've put into that
box and you're gonna realize you trust
Google more than any entity in your
history let's move further down the
torso
one of the other wonderful things about
our species is we not only need to be
loved but we need to love others
children with poor nutrition but a lot
of affection have better outcomes than
children with good nutrition and poor
affection however the best signal the
best signal that you might make it to be
the nut part of the number one
fastest-growing demographic in the world
centenarians people live the triple
digits there are three signals in
reverse order your genetics not as
important as we'd like to think so you
can continue to treat your body like
and think that Oh uncle Jill lived
in nineteen five the Diamont caste it's
less important than you think number two
is lifestyle don't smoke don't be obese
and use pre-screen get rid of about
two-thirds of early cancers and
cardiovascular disease the number one
indicator or signal that you'll make of
the triple digits how many people do you
love caretaking is the security-camera
we call the low-resolution security
camera in our brain deciding whether or
not you are adding value Facebook taps
into our instinctive need not only to be
loved but to love others mostly through
pictures that create empathy catalyze
and reinforce our relationships let's
continue our journey down the torso
Amazon is our consumptive gut the
instinct of more is hardwired into us
the penalty for too little is starvation
and malnutrition open your cupboards
open your closets you have ten to a
hundred x times what you need why
because the penalty for too little is
much greater than the penalty for too
much
so more for less is a business strategy
that never goes out of style it's the
strategy of China it's the strategy of
Walmart and now it's the strategy of the
most successful company in the world
Amazon you get more for less in your gut
digest send it to your muscular and
skeletal system of consumption moving
further once we know we will survive the
basic instinct we move to the second
most powerful instinct and that is to
spread and select the strongest smartest
and fastest seed to the four corners of
the earth or pick the best seed this is
not a timepiece I haven't them wounded
in five years it's
my vain attempt to say to people if you
mate with me your children are more
likely to survive than if you mate with
someone wearing a swatch watch the key
to business is tapping into the
irrational organs a rational is Harvard
Business School in New York Business
School term for fat profit margins and
shareholder value high caloric paste for
your children know you love your choosy
mom why choosing moms choose you if you
love your kids more the greatest
algorithm for shareholder creation from
world war ii to the advent of google was
taking an average product and appealing
to people's hearts you're a better mom a
better person a better Patriot if you
buy this average so versus this average
so now the number one algorithm for
shareholder value isn't technology look
at the Forbes 400 take out inherited
wealth take out finance the number one
source of wealth creation appealing to
your reproductive organs the Lotter is
the number one wealthiest man in europe
LVMH numbers 2 & 3 hmm and Inditex you
want to target the most irrational
organs for shareholder value
as a result these four companies Apple
Amazon Facebook and Google have
disarticulated who we are God'll of
consumption sex the proportion and your
approach to those things is who you are
and they have reassembled who we are in
the form of for-profit companies at the
end of the Great Recession the market
capitalization of these companies was
equivalent to the GDP of Niger now it is
equivalent to the GDP of India having
blown past Russia and Canada and 13 and
14 there are only five nations that have
a GDP greater than the combined market
capitalization of these four firms
something is happening though the
conversation just a year ago was which
CEO was more jesus-like who is running
for president now the worm has turned
everything they're doing is bothering us
we're worried their tax avoiders
Walmart since the Great Recession has
paid sixty four billion dollars in
corporate income tax Amazon has paid one
point four how do we pay our
firefighters our soldiers and our social
workers if the most successful companies
in the world don't pay their fair share
three
that means the less successful companies
have to pay more than their fair share
Alexa is this a good thing this is
despite the fact this is despite the
fact that Amazon has added the entire
market capitalization of Walmart to its
market cap in the last 19 months whose
fault is it it's our fault we're
electing regulators who don't have the
backbone to actually go after these
companies Facebook lies that you
regulators and say it would be
impossible for us to share the data
between our core platform and our
proposed acquisition of whatsapp approve
the merger they approve the merger and
then spoiler alert they figure it out
and the use says I feel lied to we're
finding you a hundred and twenty billion
dollars about 0.6 percent of the
acquisition price of 19 billion dollars
if Mark Zuckerberg could take out an
insurance policy that the acquisition
would go through four point six percent
wouldn't he do it anti-competitive
behavior a two and a half billion dollar
fine
three billion of the cashflow three
percent of the cash on Google's balance
sheet we are telling these companies the
smart thing to do the shareholders
driven thing to do is to lie and to
cheat we are issuing 25 cent parking
tickets on a meter that costs $100 an
hour the smart thing to do is like job
destruction Amazon only needs one person
for two at Macy's if they grow their
business 20 billion dollars this year
which they will we will lose fifty three
thousand cashiers and clerks this is
nothing unusual this has happened all
through our economy we've just never
seen companies as good at it that's one
Yankee Stadium of workers it's even
worse in media a Facebook and Google
grow their business 22 billion dollars
this year which they will we're gonna
lose approximately a hundred and fifty
thousand creative directors planners and
copywriters or we can fill up two and a
half Yankee stadium's and say you are
out of work courtesy of Amazon we now
get the majority of our news from our
social media feeds and the majority of
our news coming off of social media
feeds is fake news
I am not allowed to be political or use
curse words or talk about religion and
class so I can definitely not say
Zuckerberg has become Putin's I
definitely cannot say that their defense
Facebook is not a media company it's a
technology company you create original
content
you pay sports leagues to give you
original content you run advertising
against it boom you're a media company
just in the last few days Sheryl
Sandberg has repeated this lie that we
are not a media company Facebook has
openly embraced the margins of celebrity
and the influence of a media company yet
seems to be allergic to the
responsibilities of a media company
imagine McDonald's we find 80% of their
beef is fake and it's giving a sense of
alight us and we're making terrible
decisions and we say McDonald's were
pissed off and they say wait wait we're
not a fast-food restaurant we're a
fast-food platform these companies and
CEOs wrap themselves in a neon blue pink
rainbow and blue blanket to create an
illusionist trick from their behavior
each day which is more indicative of the
spawn of Darth Vader and Ain rant why
because we as progressives are seen as
nice but weak if Sheryl Sandberg had
written a book on gun rights or on the
right or on the pro-life movement would
they be flying Sheryl to can know and
I'm not doubting their progressive
values but it foots to shareholder value
because we as progressives are seen as
weak they're so nice remember Microsoft
they didn't seem as nice and regulators
stepped in much earlier than the
regulators now who would never step in
on those nice nice people I'm about to
get on a plane tonight and I'm gonna
have a guy named Roy from TSA molest me
if I am suspected of a DUI on the way
home I can have blood taken from my
person but wait don't happen to the
iPhone it's sacred this is our new cross
it shouldn't be the iPhone X
it should be called the iPhone cross we
have our religion it's Apple our Jesus
Christ as Steve Jobs and we've decided
this is holier than our person or our
house or our computer we have become
totally out of control with the gross
idolatry of innovation and of youth we
no longer worship at the altar of
character of kindness but of innovation
and people who create shareholder value
Amazon has become so powerful in the
marketplace it can conduct Jedi Mind
Tricks it can begin damaging other
industries just by looking at it Nike
announces the distributing on Amazon
their stock goes up every other Footwear
stock goes down when Amazon stock goes
up the rest of retail stocks go down
because they assume what's good for
Amazon is bad for everybody else they
cut the cost on salmon 33% when they
acquire it
Whole Foods in between the time they
announced the acquisition of Whole Foods
I'm going to close
Kroger the largest pure-play grocer in
America shed a third of its value
because Amazon purchased a grocer one
eleventh the size of Kroger I got very
lucky I predicted the acquisition of
Whole Foods by Amazon the week before it
happened this is me boasting I said this
publicly in the media this is the
largest acquisition in their history
they've never made an acquisition over a
billion and people ask how did you know
this so I'm letting this very impressive
audience in on the secret how did I know
this I'm gonna tell you how I knew I
barked it
alexxa all day long and trying to figure
out what's going on alexa by whole-milk
I couldn't find anything for whole milk
so I've added whole milk to your
shopping list
then I asked Alexa buy organic foods the
top search result for organic food is
plum organics baby food
banana and pumpkin twelve pack of four
ounces each it's 15 dollars total we
didn't like to buy it and then as often
happens to my age I got confused
Alexa by Whole Foods I have purchased
the outstanding stock of Whole Foods
incorporated at 42 dollars per share
I have charged 13.7 billion to your
American Express card
I thought that'd be funnier we've
personified we've personified these
companies and just as when you're really
angry over every little thing someone
does in your life in relationships you
got to ask yourself what's going on here
why are we so disappointed in technology
and I believe it's because the ratio of
1% pursuit of shareholder value and one
and 99% the betterment of humanity the
technology used to play has been flipped
and now we're totally focused on
shareholder value instead of humanity
100,000 people came together for the
Manhattan Project and literally saved
the world technology save the world my
mother was a four year old Jew living in
London at the outset of the war if we
had not warned the foot race towards
splitting the atom would she she have
survived it's unlikely 25 years later
the most impressive accomplishment
arguably ever and are in all of
humankind put a man on the moon four
hundred and thirty thousand Canadians
British and Americans came together
again with very basic technology and put
a man on the moon now we have the
700,000 best and brightest and these are
the best and brightest from the four
corners of the earth
they are literally playing with lasers
relative to two slingshots relative to
the squirt gun they have the GDP of
India to work out and after studying
these companies for ten years I know
what their mission is is it to organize
the world's information is it to connect
us is it to create greater comity of man
it isn't I know why we have brought
together I know that the greatest
collection of IQ capital and creativity
that their sole mission is to sell
another Nissan my name is Scott
Galloway I teach at NYU and I appreciate
your time
not planned but you prompted some
questions in me Scott that was a
spectacular rant is this like Letterman
when you do well it calls me on to the
cow you're going to the heart of the
conversation right like everyone's aware
that you know after years of kind of
worshipping Silicon Valley yes suddenly
the worm has turned and in such a big
way I mean to some people here will just
feel like you're piling on you're kind
of kicking the kids who've already been
kicked to pieces anyway don't you feel
any empathy for them at all
none whatsoever look this is this is the
issue it's not their fault it's our
fault they're not concerned with their
poor profit companies they're not
concerned with the condition of our
souls they're not going to take care of
us when we get older we have set up a
society that values shareholder value
over everything and they're doing what
they're supposed to be doing but we need
to elect people and we need to force
ourselves to force them to be subject to
the same scrutiny that the rest of
business and doors
full-stop there's there's another
narrative that is arguably equally
consistent with the facts which is that
there's been that there actually is good
intent in much of the leadership I won't
say everyone necessarily many of the
employees and that many I mean we all
know people who work in those companies
and they still are pretty convincing
that their mission is to do stuff so the
alternative narrative is that there have
been unintended consequences here that
the technologies that were unleashing
the algorithms that were attempting to
personalize the internet for example
have kind of been a resulted in weird
effects like filter bubbles that we
weren't expecting and be made themselves
vulnerable to weird things like oh I
don't know Russian hackers great
creating accounts and doing things that
we didn't expect
isn't the unintended consequence a
possibility here I don't think so I'm
pretty sure statistically they're no
less or better people than any other
organization that has a hundred thousand
or more people I don't think they're bad
people as a matter of fact I would argue
that there's a lot of very civic
minded decent leadership but this is the
issue when you control ninety percent
points of share in a market search that
is now bigger than the entire
advertising market of any nation and
you're primarily compensated and trying
to develop Economic Security for you and
the families of your employees to
increase that market share you can't
help but leverage all the power at your
disposal and that is the basis for
regulation and it's the basis for truism
throughout history that power corrupts
they're not bad people we've just let
we've just let them get out of control
but so maybe the case is you ever
say I know at least a bit Larry Page for
example Jeff basis I don't actually
believe they wake up thinking I've got
to sell a Nissan I don't think
they think that I think they are trying
to build something cool and are probably
in moments of reflection as horrified at
some of the things that have happened as
we might be so is it is there a
different way of framing this I'm to say
that the when your model is advertising
that there are dangers there that you
have to take on more explicitly I think
it's very difficult to set an
organization up as we do to pursue
shareholder value above all else they're
not nonprofits they're they're the
reason people go to work there's they
want to create Economic Security for
them and their families mostly first and
foremost and when you get to a point
when you control so much economic power
you use all the weapons at your disposal
I don't think they're bad people but I
think the role of government and the
role of us as consumers and people who
elect our officials is to ensure that
there are some checks here and we have
given them the mother of all hall passes
because we find them just so fascinating
it's got eloquently put spec to actually
put Mark Zuckerberg Jeff Bezos Larry
Page Tim Cook if you're watching you're
welcome to come and make the
counter-argument as well start thank you
so much thanks thank you
[Applause]